"In the Buddha teaching, every living being has the beautiful potential known as the Buddha
teaching. Everyone's inherent nature is this inconceivable state of wisdom, loving-kindness,
compassion. Only we have to let it wake up." "My own experience has proven to me time
and time again that Christian science heals. Mary Baker Ready saw that there were laws behind
the healings of Jesus, that she could heal other people and then she could teach other
people to heal others." "It's getting the human mind out of the way and allowing the
divine mind and divine consciousness to be present." "The heart and soul of Jainism
lies in a hensa, not to cause injury to others, all forms of life." "If you believe in non-violence
and not hurting people, vegetarians, you are Jain." CBS presents World Religions Tibetan
Buddhism, Christian Science and Jainism. The narrator is Ted Holmes.
Buddhism was founded in the sixth century in northern India. The religion's founder
is known as Gotama Buddha. "The essence of the Buddha teaching is to be kind and to be
nice and to feel happy." The venerable Kenpo Sei-Wang Rinpoche is the founder of Padmasamye
Ling, a Tibetan Buddhist monastery in upstate New York. "Wherever you go, always be calm
and peaceful, watch your mind, those are what Buddha teaches." Siddhartha Gotama was born
the son of a king and lived a privileged and sheltered life. "In his early 20s, he was
venturing outside of the usual area of where he was kept and he started to see people sick
and people getting old and people dying. And that immediately caused the question in his
mind, will this happen to me? That led him to look inwardly, what is the cause of this
trouble, all this suffering?" "The fundamental cause of suffering is one's own deed and one's
own action and negative emotions such as ignorance and attachment, anger." Gotama left the palace
and went to live the life of a monk. While meditating under a Bodhi tree, he attained
enlightenment. "The principle cause of suffering that he found was that core feeling, that
I have this fixed, permanent, singular, independent, unchanging self in here which I so strongly
feel is there, that me actually isn't there, it's not findable. That was his enlightenment.
Without filtering everything through this narrow sense of grasping, ego clinging, it's
peace, it's loving, it's calm, it's infinitely available." The way out of suffering is through
ethical conduct, thought and meditation. "Just be in the moment in the present state and then
bring more love and joy and kindness to all beings in your self and that is not meditation
and a perfect concentration." Meditation is a technique that will quiet the mind and actually
help the mind look into itself. It doesn't matter if we're in a corporate world or raising
kids, if we can connect to that nature and have that motivation of love and compassion
and kindness, then everything is practice. "Maybe it's good to have some challenging
difficulties that will make our self strong, strong, we'll not just become marshmallows,
bunch of marshmallows. We learn and grow deepening ourselves." By the eighth century Buddhism
had flourished throughout Asia before becoming established in Tibet, a rural mountainous
country north of India. "Within Tibetan Buddhism there is a lot of outer ceremony. There's
wearing the clothes one wears, there's during the practices, there's recitation of different
prayers and instruments played and offerings made, murals reminding us of the Buddha nature's
wisdom and compassion. This is all there as a support for our inner meditation." Tibetan
Buddhists looked to his holiness the Dalai Lama as their leader. Until recently he was
also the leader of the Tibetan government in exile. "India is my home now. It is a great
emanation of the Buddha of compassion. His activity, his love, his kindness, his courage,
his openness, both so much calm and peace, harmonious to the Tibetan public." In 1950
Tibet was invaded by China, the sound of red Chinese guns. Since the invasion it's estimated
that nearly one million Tibetans have lost their lives and 6,000 monasteries were destroyed.
"In the consequential struggle, the Chinese armed forces destroyed a large number of monasteries.
Many lamas were killed." 150,000 refugees fled across the border to India, Nepal and
beyond. Among those refugees was the venerable Kenpo Sewang Rinpoche. When he was 9 he and
his family were forced to leave eastern Tibet in the dead of winter. "They traveled at night
and then they would stop in camp and they would have to assess what news there was, which
ways was safer, which ways was not. Many had become ill. They actually had no food many,
many days." His mother and two sisters did not survive the 18 month journey. But Kenpo
and his older brother, the venerable Kenshin Palden Sharab Rinpoche, eventually made it
all the way to America where they played a pivotal role in bringing Tibetan Buddhists
into this country. "And even their father came here and lived here for 10 years. These
wonderful Kenpos have encountered such a difficult life and yet been able to express it and turn
it into this incredible message." In 1993 they established Padma Samye Ling, just off
Buddha Highway in the western Catskills of upstate New York. "I remember the first days
they were walking on the land and there was really nothing here, it was completely bare.
They had their Tibetan hats on and then I really thought they brought part of Tibet
here and they have their land now." The temple is a replica of Samye Monastery, one of the
first in Tibet. "And it has like all the traditional aspects the Tibetan Buddhist Monastery Retreat
Center would have in Tibet, has an extensive library, year-round instructions from total
beginner level to like more advanced practices and it goes all the way back in the lineage
to Buddhist Shakyamuni." "So this is the one way in assembly of all of the enlightened
beings of the different universe here and as well as many enlightened beings in Buddhas
from India to Tibet. May is really the energy brings us like satellite disk that us meeting
the great energies of love and compassion kindness and truth to all everywhere and therefore
the universe of the world become peace and harmony and calm." We will return after these
messages. To view this program and others like it go to
CBS News dot com slash religion and culture